And you would be surprised how many newspapers and
radio stations call me from all over the United
States calling me a male chauvinist pig and what in
the world was wrong. And why in the world can you be
that? And ladies' organizations. And it was a very
trying experience. And you'd go, so I'd go to a golf
tournament, and my girl's going to play the first
ball there, and there's somebody yelling over
there. And it was terrible. Just five years of
harassment, and it was bad. uh all right five years
i think it was five years before it started before
it was over oh okay see they postponed it yes it may
not have been i don't know at all i don't remember
though i try to forget it i'm not going to ask the
negative the positive uh who uh in the
administration you mentioned colas who else
deserves credit for being supportive of your
effort to try to dr vanderbilt
I could tell you a little incident happened. I
won't tell you, but I'm not over this thing, but
I'll tell you. I'm telling you. So I'm correct in
understanding then that you believe that Dr.
Frank Vandiver, then the president, deserves a
lot of credit. He deserves, in my, Dr. Vandiver and
Dr. Colas, and of course the commandant, he's been
for it for some time. I believe his name was Burton
at the time. All right, then the first time the
Aggie band goes on the field with women, how many
were out there? Maybe three or four, and you could
not tell they were there. That's what I heard from a
number of people. Everybody in the stands was
trying to pick out the girls. They couldn't do it.
They saw there was one little short one there that,
Stretching her legs out pretty good. She was a
flute player, but had her hair all day and she would
the same thing and they still do it and now I think
they have 35 right and they were They like the men
wear slacks with same suit not skirt the same
thing, and I think they wear, when they go to corps
dances and things, I think they wear the same thing
as the women in the corps wear, their uniforms, but
when they're marching on the field, they wear the
same thing with their hair pinned up, and they're
good. Listen, women can play. In my high school
bands, we had some great bands, and about 50% of
them were girls. After that first year, uh did
everyone then seem to accept it it went after that
they there was just some that didn't like it and we
we had very few incidences the first year did you uh
have to ever have to deal with any uh harassment or
hazing well not anything real serious there were
you'd have to call one in there now this way it is and
you go do it or else you're going to be in trouble and
they'd go do it you know they were just that
dedicated and and and uh i in my personal opinion i
could never see as a parent if i were a parent
sending a daughter in there it's a man's band but
you know then they moved them into the dorm you know
with them and they they went in there one summer i
was against that and i always will be i agree with
you uh and they they went in there and they spent
thirty five thousand dollars and fixed up a a
restroom and they the first they moved them down on
the end had their own little section but then that
meant that all the boys on that section had to go
somewhere to take a shower so you know i Uh I just uh
but I was not told and was not in on that so that's
that's here and there but uh uh I just I felt like we
did it smoothly and I felt like it was something
that wasn't a matter of what we wanted it was a
matter of what the the government was going to make
you do then the Civil Liberties Union came down
here and interviewed us and and and uh grilled us
down and And they asked why I object to it. I said,
you put young men and young women in the same
building, doing the same things all the time, and
things are going to happen that would not normally
happen. And I don't think that's right. And they
couldn't understand that either. But I didn't
care whether they understood it or not. That's
just the way it is. Did any regents attempt to
intervene and directly tell you what to do? Not
that I know of. Good, good. No, I didn't hear one
thing from them other than that one request we
talked about, which was kind of a stab in the night,
I think. All right, let's shift to some lighter
moments. Can you share some anecdotes about some
of the tricks, some of the good bulls, some of the
pranks that band members played on each other?
Yeah, they... Somebody was always in the core, you
know, they were always coming over there and
driving on our football, on our practice field
with the cars and making big tracks and things like
that. And they'd put sheep stuff and pig stuff and
chicken stuff in there so it would smell bad for a
long time and everything. They would do things
like that, but one of the best stories that I can
remember is the last year I was there, we went to
Arkansas. And about 2 o'clock in the morning, the
manager of the motel knocked on my door and said,
Colonel, get up, get up. You've got to come out
here. I said, well, what in the world does it
matter? It's 2 o'clock in the morning. He said,
that doesn't matter. Come out here. You've got to
see this. He said, there's a bunch of your seniors
around there climbing up the trellis on the side of
the motel. They said they're going all the way to
the top. So I go out there, and I'm telling you,
that's what it was. It rose trellis, and they were
halfway up. And so I looked up there, and I said,
what are you guys doing? And they said, well, we're
just having fun. I said, you get down over there,
and you go to your room, and we'll talk about it
Monday. Right now it's 2 o'clock in the morning.
The man is scared for a lot of insurance reasons and
other reasons, and you get down and go to your room.
And they did. I called them in Monday. We had our
talk. So when we were going to the inaugural
parade, I told them, I said, now I want to tell you
guys one thing. When we go up there, we're going to
all be staying in the same motel for three nights.
If I hear of one lamp broken, one towel taken, one
wash rag missing, or one disturbance call, I don't
care who you are and you will be in Virginia You will
be on a bus at your own expense going home. You will
not perform in the parade, and you will not march
with this band. Do we understand that? Yes, sir.
Okay. So we go up there, and we go through the three
days, march in the parade. We're getting back on
the bus to go to the airplanes, and they were in New
York. And this guy said, Colonel Haney. I said,
yes, can I see you in a minute? He said, I'm Mr.
So-and-so. I'm the manager of this motel. I said,
oh, God. So he said, you know, when I first got this
call that we were keeping 315 members of the
Fighting Texas Aggie Band, I was disturbed. But he
says, you know, they were here three days. There
was not one lamp broken, not one towel was taken,
not one wash rag was missing, and I did not have one
disturbance call. And he said, that is a record.
And he said, any time you guys want to stay here,
you're welcome. So, now that's, to me, that's what
it's all about. Now, did ever any band members
attempt to play any trick on you? Not very. Well,
I'll tell you what. Let me tell you one other story.
When I first came, the first year I was in in 73, I was
up in the top floor up there is where I stay, and I was
looking out and there was a big tree that grows all
the trees all around the drill field. And this one,
I said, I didn't have my off button. My on button,
off button was on. And so I said, you know, that
dadgum tree is getting so big that I can't see half
the band. And I didn't think any more about it. The
next day I went out there and I said, there's
something wrong. That tree was gone. They took it
right down to the nub of the trunk. And it was not a
leaf in place. Everything was gone. Nobody
mentioned it to me, nothing. And I could see half
the band. So I said, oh my Lord, what have I done? And
so Mr. Ray, Eugene Ray, was the groundsman, and
those trees were his children. And it took him
about two weeks to find it, to see it, notice it. I
guess he drove by or something and saw it. So he
didn't go to see John Coles, he went to see the
president, Dr. Williams. And so John called me a
day or so later and said, Joe, we got trouble. I
said, what's wrong? He said, man, there's a $4,000
tree that those boys have cut down. He said, do you
know anything about it? I said, John, all I can tell
you is that the tree is gone. And he said, well, I
said, I couldn't see the band. I told him my story.
He said, well, don't worry about it. I'll take care
of it. That's the last I heard about the tree. But
now, they must have stayed up most of the night.
Mm-hmm. And I told them one afternoon after band I
said I can't back my car up, there's a car behind me
and I've got to go home, it's 7 o'clock. I said sir
we'll take care of it and they've got a hundred of
them over there and moved, picked that car up and
put it on the sidewalk and left it. I mean that's
just the kind. Not often did they. Had one guy could
imitate me real good, and one of the band dancers,
he did that. And I've got a picture of it in there. I
used to put my head up here or something, and he had
my mannerisms down to better than I did. And I
thought that was so funny. And we all got a big kick
out of that. Let's see, of all of the, I'll say
tunes, to be as inclusive as possible, of all of the
tunes, all the musical numbers that the band
played, did you have a favorite? Well, I just loved
the Stars and Stripes. Stars and Stripes Revival.
Yeah, and I loved, they really used to do it, of
course I love the old men, they do that so well, and
they do a great job on the National Emblem.
strategic air command and we had we had so many and
of course that old battle hymn thing we did that was
that was really something he stopped that a minute
I mean go in this restroom and I'll be right back.
Before we leave the Aggie Band Association has
just made a CD of the two albums that Vern made and
the four that I made. It's two CDs and I want you to
have the packet. And they really are good. And I
think if you'll listen you can see how it never did
really change except there's a little evolution
there you can tell. Now, in the halftime routine,
always began with the war hymn and always ended
with the spirit. No, not at the halftime. didn't
play they don't play the spirit at the halftime
they usually they usually end it with uh some kind
of a march or something uh with the block t yeah with
the block that's in the war here that's right yeah
yeah all right uh then uh about in that halftime
about how many other were normally played every
time during the halftime. Were there any others?
You can usually, if you go with the war hymn, you can
cut that off depending on how much. But sometimes
you'll just come out of the north end zone and then
you'll go into something else that would require,
change the mood a little bit. And you can sometimes
do three other tunes. And you can do more than that
if you just play a portion of them. So you really
need quite a variety, but see they have to memorize
all those things, and they usually just want to
play the ones, and they'll get lazy if you let them.
Now during the course of the football season,
about how many different numbers will they
perform in a year?
We used to pass out forty-five tunes. Oh, that
many. I don't think they do that anymore. They
don't play quite that many anymore. But we would
play a number in the stands. We did a lot at the
pregame. We played quite a bit. And we would try to
do some different tunes every week. We might do
during the process a year, do Noble Men twice
maybe, and then some different finale every time.
But we would play most of those tunes during the
football season. Of course, some of them were
basketball season. And we played jazz when I was
there in the basketball game some, and like the
Saints go marching in and things like that. But
they've cut the band out now, and they have about
forty I think, and there's no more national
anthem. There's no more spirit I don't think. I
don't know. I haven't been. And they have a dance
team, I believe, with the rock tape. That to me is
not our tradition. I'll tell you an interesting
story on that one. They changed that about the day I
left because I wouldn't change it. Let's see. The
title, Fightin' Texas Aggie Band, what does that
fightin' mean? I'm not real sure. Because I've
noticed that in all of the bands that we play,
anywhere, Southwest Conference, anywhere, that
our band is the best-mannered bunch of the whole
deal. We stay in there. We mind our own business. We
very seldom ever have any trouble because we did
not allow any trouble. But I understand in days
gone by, there have been some fights. now I think
one here one one let's see about two three years ago
they got some they put the Aggie band and the Texas
band on the field at the same time at Texas and they
had some altercations and with with the Texas band
and the football team and eight or ten of the
seniors walked off they wouldn't get on there and
uh they they asked I've had a number of them call me
and I asked me I said you need to do what the
southwest conference rules say you can do and just
tell them you got eight minutes i'm gonna be on
there and off in eight minutes and you do whatever
you want to the rest of the time and you won't have
any trouble at all but uh because we always went
right back to the stands and got back up in there so
we we just didn't have any i don't ever recall
having any really unpleasant experiences at a
game while I was here. Because to me, I assumed that
word, fighting, didn't mean physical
encounters. It meant striving, trying. That's
the way I interpret that, too. Hardworking. I
interpret it that way. I think like dedication and
hard work and talent and They're striving to do
that.
But I think in years past they've had some
altercations.
I've got only two or three questions left. What
have I not touched on? Well, we've hit it around
there pretty good, haven't we? All right, then if
you don't think of anything else, these
questions. Who are some people that you'd like to
thank? Express appreciation and record it.
Golly knows there's so many of them. I just really
wouldn't know where to start. I think the first guy
that was, of course, I'd like to thank Vern Adams
first because Vern Adams was the reason I was
there. If Vern Adams had not wanted me there I would
not have been there and it's the same way for the guy
they have out here now if I had not wanted him there
and not brought him there he would not be here Burn
Adams is the reason that I was able to come to A&M.
And then John Coldis was very helpful to me when he
first came and I first came. And he was very nice
to me and helped me a great deal. And of course, all
of the Aggie Band Association and those people,
the former students, There were a lot of people
that I was in the band went down here that are former
students that still worked a lot with Aggie Band
Association and that thing was kind of touch and go
sometime because we didn't have the four or five
that were doing everything and a guy named George
Humble who I was in the band with was president for
four years and he got the scholarships going and I
mean the scholarships he got the foundation
things going and established one in Colonel Duns
and Colonel Adams and in my name which and he
started to raise the dues and establish some money
and now they're they're they're working on the the
core foundation, I think, and they're putting all
their money into that and getting more interest, I
think, out of it. I don't know how that's working.
But, you know, there's so many people that just day
by day were so good to you, and certainly you want to
say something about the coaches and the athletic
department because primarily you're striving
for them more than anyone because they're the ones
that are or making all of this possible. If it were
not for them, no football games, you couldn't have
a 300-piece Aggie band to play for six reviews, you
know, that's something that you do extra. And so I
just feel like that all the coaches they've had,
Coach Pillar and Coach Slocum and Coach Sherrill
and Wally Groff and all those guys, they just were
great to us. And I just, General Simpson was very
helpful in many respects. When you first got here,
Dr. Williams was here? Dr. Williams was here, yes.
And he was very nice to me, always. And then
I'm just trying to think. Howard Perry was my boss
for a while. He was a lot of help to me. And mainly,
the guys in the band were the ones that golly knows
if I had had a deal going with them it was not
pleasant. It would have been impossible to do all
these things we had to do. The last year I was there I
had 45 performances I was responsible for. And
that's not quite as many as the singing cadets
either. Now you're talking about some people that
go, singing cadets do. But you know without their
cooperation And they call over there sometime on
Wednesday. Well, you've got to have them there.
You've got to have them so-and-so by Saturday. But
that's their weekend off. Well, that's tough.
They've got to go. And you call the COO and you say,
look, I'm sorry, but that's what they say. Sir,
they'll be there. All right, let's see.
Hypothetical question. Let's make believe that
you had an unlimited budget and unlimited staff.
How large would you think the A&M band ought to be in
numbers? If we had $10 million a year, I would be
very selective and not march more than 303 people.
So you think that's... That is ideal with the
company fronts and the manner in which you go into
your block and the manner and the things. It's
large, but it does not limit your activities. With
400 or 380 or whatever it is, you can't do much. and
and I had some so what we call a step one drill it
takes three minutes to pick them up some way but
this step one drill where they're turning every
step you can pick them up the whole bunch in 24 steps
and they save not only time and everything but you
can still do anything you need to do with 303 and
that's that's what I would have and uh we've had had
them smaller we've never tried one any larger but
we've had them smaller 288 isn't bad that's what
they marched that a couple times the first year I
was here but then we lost a lot of them and uh uh
that's what i would do that's perfect for me okay
next last question let's make believe somebody
gave you a million dollar check and there's only
one restriction on the check you got to pass it on to
texas a m but you can decide what it would be used to
support what would you make that check uh I would be
sure that we had first class horns to play all the
time, and the music. And we pretty well traveled
okay, and I would put it in a trust and use it when we
needed it, but I would not have to. We had some horns
that were so bad when I came here they wouldn't even
play. Had old E flat horns, E flat basses and stuff
like that. And John Colas helped me get some
things. But I had to go out and raise $25,000 myself
one year to get bases, because they didn't have any
money. How much does a base horn cost around here?
Now it costs about $5,000 or $6,000. Per horn? Per
horn. It was about $3,000 then, $250. But it's
just, well, gosh, it's hardly gone up so there. Of
course, it's about $900 now. Can you imagine? All
right, the last question then, as you look back on
it, what has it meant to you and your life that you
had to have this long association with Texas A&E?
Well, first of all, I did not make the Aggie band. If
I have had any success and recognition, it's
because of what they did for me. Now, I think that I
gave them some really nice things to do, but it has
just meant so much to me to be associated with that
bunch of dedicated people. That was what made it so
much fun, is because they were not only
intelligent now, they were not only fine players,
But they had a wonderful attitude. They were
dedicated and that marvelous talent. And they're
just undying spirit. There's just not another
group in the world like that bunch. And I think
that's what got us through thick and thin. And
sometimes you get so busy and you're so worried
about this and worried about that that you forget
what in the world they're doing. And I think the
people at the university forget that. They think
they're on the payroll. And I always tried to take
up for them and fight for them. And a lot of people
probably thought I was disagreeable. But if I
didn't do it, who was going to do it? You cannot make
those guys, and it hurts their grades. You can't
tell me it doesn't hurt their grades. It does. They
need to have time to study, and they need to have
time to do the things that they want to do and have
some time off. And that's what I tried to do.
Sometimes it worked, and most of the time it
didn't. But that's all right, too. I don't care. I
don't ever remember going somewhere with that
bunch, and they didn't try to do their best. And I
don't remember many times that they didn't do
their best. Now you're going to have some problems
because nothing a thousand miles away is like it is
over the phone and you had some some it seemed like
the stadiums in the last two years they were not on
top of everything and they'd say well you get there
so and so and this will be so and so and it was never
there you had to go look it up and it was just a big
hassle but that bunch I I'm not sure they're
they're not uh they they were very disciplined
then And I didn't instill them. No, I told them if
we're going to leave at 6 a.m., we left at 6 a.m. I
said, sir, but there's eight seniors sacked out.
And I said, well, if they don't get there, we're
going to have eight holes. we went to Texas Tech and
left eight of them one time and they were there
waiting on us when we got there. We didn't see them
go by those buses either. And also the next time
they didn't oversleep. Well and I've had I've had
the uh the bus man tell me said man you know
sometimes now we stick around 30-40 minutes
waiting on somebody to come. I said man we don't
wait on anybody they're not there then and getting
up and leaving at 1 30 in the morning so you could
have a 12 o'clock or one two hour game and then uh in
the afternoon with tech or arkansas or lsu or
something it's a hard deal but they made it easy
that's the only way i survived this teaching
business that long well let me thank you so much for
this and i'll turn this machine off